[plat-6797][docs] Refactored the push and pull docker images (#15964)
yugabyte/yugabyte-db: docs/content/preview/yugabyte-platform/install-yugabyte-platform/prepare-environment/kubernetes.md

Generally, the process involves the following:

- Fetching the correct version of the YugabyteDB Helm chart whose `values.yaml` file describes all the image locations.
- Retagging images.
- Pushing images to the private container registry.
- Modifying the Helm chart values to point to the new private location.

![img](/images/yp/docker-pull.png)

You need to perform the following steps:

> - Login to [quay.io](https://quay.io/) to access the YugabyteDB private registry using the user name and password provided in the secret YAML file. To find the `auth` field, use `base64 -d` to decode the data inside the `yaml` file twice. In this field, the user name and password are separated by a colon. For example, `yugabyte+<user-name>:ZQ66Z9C1K6AHD5A9VU28B06Q7N0AXZAQSR`.

Reviewer: Is there a reason for changing to bullets from numbered steps?

Author: Nothing specific.

  ```sh
  docker login -u "your_yugabyte_username" -p "yugabyte_provided_password" quay.
  docker search quay.io/yugabyte
  ```

> - Install Helm to fetch the YugabyteDB Anywhere Helm chart on your machine. Follow to see [Helm Installation](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Install Helm to fetch the YugabyteDB Anywhere Helm chart on your machine. For more information, refer to [Installing Helm](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/).
```

- Run the following `helm repo add` command to clone the [YugabyteDB charts repository](https://charts.yugabyte.com/).

  ```sh
  helm repo add yugabytedb https://charts.yugabyte.com
  helm repo update
  ```

- Run the following command to search for the version.

  ```sh
  helm search repo yugabytedb/yugaware --version {{<yb-version version="preview" format="short">}}
  ```

>   A similar output should appear:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  You should see output similar to the following:
```

  ```output
  NAME                            CHART VERSION   APP VERSION     DESCRIPTION
  yugabytedb/yugaware             {{<yb-version version="preview" format="short">}}          {{<yb-version version="preview" format="build">}}    YugaWare is YugaByte Database's Orchestration a...
  ```

- Fetch images tag from `values.yaml` as tags may vary depending on the version.

  ```sh
  helm show values yugabytedb/yugaware --version {{<yb-version version="preview" format="short">}}
  ```

>   A similar output should appear:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  You should see output similar to the following:
```

  ```properties
  image:
    commonRegistry: ""

    repository: quay.io/yugabyte/yugaware
    tag: 2.16.1.0-b50
    pullPolicy: IfNotPresent
    pullSecret: yugabyte-k8s-pull-secret

    thirdparty-deps:
      registry: quay.io
      tag: latest
      name: yugabyte/thirdparty-deps

    postgres:
      registry: ""
      tag: '14.4'
      name: postgres

    postgres-upgrade:
      registry: ""
      tag: "11-to-14"
      name: tianon/postgres-upgrade

    prometheus:
      registry: ""
      tag: v2.41.0
      name: prom/prometheus

    nginx:
      registry: ""
      tag: 1.23.3
      name: nginxinc/nginx-unprivileged
  ...
  ```

- Pull images to your machine, as follows:

>   **Note** - These image tags will vary based on the version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  **Note**: These image tags will vary based on the version.
```

- Retagging images.
- Pushing images to the private container registry.
- Modifying the Helm chart values to point to the new private location.

![img](/images/yp/docker-pull.png)

You need to perform the following steps:

- Login to [quay.io](https://quay.io/) to access the YugabyteDB private registry using the user name and password provided in the secret YAML file. To find the `auth` field, use `base64 -d` to decode the data inside the `yaml` file twice. In this field, the user name and password are separated by a colon. For example, `yugabyte+<user-name>:ZQ66Z9C1K6AHD5A9VU28B06Q7N0AXZAQSR`.

  ```sh
  docker login -u "your_yugabyte_username" -p "yugabyte_provided_password" quay.
  docker search quay.io/yugabyte
  ```

- Install Helm to fetch the YugabyteDB Anywhere Helm chart on your machine. Follow to see [Helm Installation](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/).

- Run the following `helm repo add` command to clone the [YugabyteDB charts repository](https://charts.yugabyte.com/).

  ```sh
  helm repo add yugabytedb https://charts.yugabyte.com
  ```

- Run the following `helm repo update` command to fetch the updates from the Chart repo.

  ```sh
  helm repo update

>   ```

Reviewer 2: I think we can just combine these two commands in a single instruction. 
This particular section will focus more on container images, than how to add Helm repo and check if it is working.

  ```

  A similar output should appear:

  ```output
  NAME                            CHART VERSION   APP VERSION     DESCRIPTION
  yugabytedb/yugaware             {{<yb-version version="preview" format="short">}}          {{<yb-version version="preview" format="build">}}    YugaWare is YugaByte Database's Orchestration a...
  ```

- Run the command to list all the available versions.

  ```sh
  helm search repo yugabytedb/yugaware -l
  ```

  A similar output should appear:

  ```output
  NAME                            CHART VERSION   APP VERSION     DESCRIPTION
  yugabytedb/yugaware             2.17.0          2.17.0.0-b24    YugaWare is YugaByte Database's Orchestration a...
  yugabytedb/yugaware             2.16.1          2.16.1.0-b50    YugabyteDB Anywhere provides deployment, orches...
  yugabytedb/yugaware             2.16.0          2.16.0.1-b7     YugaWare is YugaByte Database's Orchestration a...
  yugabytedb/yugaware             2.15.3          2.15.3.3-b1     YugaWare is YugaByte Database's Orchestration a...
  yugabytedb/yugaware             2.15.2          2.15.2.1-b1     YugaWare is YugaByte Database's Orchestration a...

>   ```

Reviewer 2: I think we don't need this, let's focus more on container images and less on the Helm commands/setup.

> - Fetch images tag from `values.yaml` and tag may vary depending on the version.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Fetch images tag from `values.yaml` as tags may vary depending on the version.
```

      registry: ""
      tag: '14.4'
      name: postgres

    postgres-upgrade:
      registry: ""
      tag: "11-to-14"
      name: tianon/postgres-upgrade

    prometheus:
      registry: ""
      tag: v2.41.0
      name: prom/prometheus

    nginx:
      registry: ""
      tag: 1.23.3
      name: nginxinc/nginx-unprivileged
  ...
  ```

- Pull images to your machine, as follows:

  **Note** - These image tags will vary based on the version.

  ```sh
  docker pull quay.io/yugabyte/yugaware:{{<yb-version version="preview" format="build">}}
  docker pull postgres:14.4
  docker pull prom/prometheus:v2.41.0
  docker pull tianon/postgres-upgrade:11-to-14
  docker pull nginxinc/nginx-unprivileged:1.23.3
  ```

- Login to your target container registry, as per the following example that uses Google Container Registry (GCR):

  ```sh
  docker login -u _json_key --password-stdin https://gcr.io < .ssh/my-service-account-key.json
  ```

- Tag the local images to your target registry, as follows:

  ```sh
  docker tag quay.io/yugabyte/yugaware:{{<yb-version version="preview" format="build">}} gcr.io/dataengineeringdemos/yugabyte/yugaware:{{<yb-version version="preview" format="build">}}

>   docker tag nginxinc/nginx-unprivileged:1.23.3 gcr.io/dataengineeringdemos/yugabyte/nginxinc/nginx-unprivileged:1.23.3
>   docker tag postgres:14.4 gcr.io/dataengineeringdemos/yugabyte/postgres:14.4

Reviewer 2: These two are not correct, these should be.
```suggestion
  docker tag nginxinc/nginx-unprivileged:1.23.3 gcr.io/dataengineeringdemos/nginxinc/nginx-unprivileged:1.23.3
  docker tag postgres:14.4 gcr.io/dataengineeringdemos/postgres:14.4
```

  docker tag tianon/postgres-upgrade:11-to-14 gcr.io/dataengineeringdemos/tianon/postgres-upgrade:11-to-14
  docker tag prom/prometheus:v2.41.0 gcr.io/dataengineeringdemos/prom/prometheus:v2.41.0
  ```

- Push images to the private container registry, as follows:

  ```sh
  docker push gcr.io/dataengineeringdemos/yugabyte/yugaware:{{<yb-version version="preview" format="build">}}

>   docker push gcr.io/dataengineeringdemos/yugabyte/nginx:1.23.3
>   docker push gcr.io/dataengineeringdemos/yugabyte/postgres:14.4
>   docker push gcr.io/dataengineeringdemos/janeczku/tianon/postgres-upgrade:11-to-14

Reviewer 2: Same here.

```suggestion
  docker push gcr.io/dataengineeringdemos/nginxinc/nginx-unprivileged:1.23.3
  docker push gcr.io/dataengineeringdemos/postgres:14.4
  docker push gcr.io/dataengineeringdemos/tianon/postgres-upgrade:11-to-14
```

  docker push gcr.io/dataengineeringdemos/prom/prometheus:v2.41.0
  ```

  ![img](/images/yp/docker-image.png)

> - Follow the link to use [custom container registry](../../install-software/kubernetes/#specify-custom-container-registry).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Follow [Specify custom container registry](../../install-software/kubernetes/#specify-custom-container-registry) to install YugabyteDB Anywhere with the images from your private registry.
```

- Install YugabyteDB Anywhere Helm chart using the custom container registry, as follows:

  ```sh
  helm install yba yugabytedb/yugaware \
    --version {{<yb-version version="preview" format="short">}} \
    --set image.commonRegistry=gcr.io/dataengineeringdemos

>   ```

Reviewer 2: This is not needed now as we are redirecting users to the installation page.

  ```sh
  docker login -u "your_yugabyte_username" -p "yugabyte_provided_password" quay.
  docker search quay.io/yugabyte
  ```

1. Install Helm to fetch the YugabyteDB Anywhere Helm chart on your desktop. Follow to see [Helm Installation](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/).

1. Add Yugabytedb Anywhere Helm chart repo and check the versions in the Helm repo.

  ```sh
  helm repo add yugabytedb https://charts.yugabyte.com
  helm repo update
  helm search repo yugabytedb/yugaware -l
  ```

  ```sh
  NAME                            CHART VERSION   APP VERSION     DESCRIPTION
  yugabytedb/yugaware             2.17.0          2.17.0.0-b24    YugaWare is YugaByte Database's Orchestration a...
  yugabytedb/yugaware             2.16.1          2.16.1.0-b50    YugabyteDB Anywhere provides deployment, orches...
  yugabytedb/yugaware             2.16.0          2.16.0.1-b7     YugaWare is YugaByte Database's Orchestration a...
  yugabytedb/yugaware             2.15.3          2.15.3.3-b1     YugaWare is YugaByte Database's Orchestration a...
  yugabytedb/yugaware             2.15.2          2.15.2.1-b1     YugaWare is YugaByte Database's Orchestration a...
  ```

> 1. Fetch the YugabyteDB Anywhere Helm chart tar. Since the images in the `values.yaml` file may vary depending on the version, you need to specify the version you want to pull and push, as follows:

Reviewer 2: It would be better to use `helm show values` instead of download the tar and cat values, like suggested in https://docs.yugabyte.com/preview/yugabyte-platform/install-yugabyte-platform/install-software/kubernetes/#customize-yugabytedb-anywhere

Also, you can use the shortcodes to indicate the version instead of writing it in the commands. See: 
https://github.com/yugabyte/yugabyte-db/blob/master/docs/content/preview/yugabyte-platform/install-yugabyte-platform/install-software/kubernetes.md

Search for yb-version to understand how we are using that shortcode in the commands. The output can remain as it is, but at least the command can use the version shortcode.

  ```sh
  export CHART_VERSION=2.16.1
  export APP_VERSION=2.16.1.0-b50
  helm fetch yugabytedb/yugaware --version=${CHART_VERSION}
  tar zxvf yugaware-${CHART_VERSION}.tgz
  cd yugaware
  cat values.yaml
  ```

  ```properties
  image:
    commonRegistry: ""

    repository: quay.io/yugabyte/yugaware
    tag: 2.16.1.0-b50
    pullPolicy: IfNotPresent
    pullSecret: yugabyte-k8s-pull-secret

    thirdparty-deps:
      registry: quay.io
      tag: latest
      name: yugabyte/thirdparty-deps

    postgres:
      registry: ""
      tag: '14.4'
      name: postgres

    postgres-upgrade:
      registry: ""
      tag: "11-to-14"
      name: tianon/postgres-upgrade

    prometheus:
      registry: ""
      tag: v2.41.0
      name: prom/prometheus

    nginx:
      registry: ""
      tag: 1.23.3
      name: nginxinc/nginx-unprivileged
  ```

> 1. Pull images to your Docker Desktop, as follows:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Pull images to your machine, as follows:
```

  ```sh

>   docker pull quay.io/yugabyte/yugaware:${APP_VERSION}

Reviewer 2: Use yb-version shortcode here.

>   docker pull quay.io/yugabyte/thirdparty-deps:latest

Reviewer 2: This one is not used, we can remove it from here, as well as above output.
And remove it from other commands as well.

  docker pull postgres:14.4
  docker pull prom/prometheus:v2.41.0
  docker pull tianon/postgres-upgrade:11-to-14
  docker pull nginxinc/nginx-unprivileged:1.23.3

>   ```

Reviewer 2: ``````suggestion
  ```
  Note that these image tags will vary based on the values you get from previous command.
``````

  ```

1. Tag the local images to your target registry, as follows:

  ```sh
  docker images
  ```

  ```output
  REPOSITORY                         TAG            IMAGE ID       CREATED        SIZE
  tianon/postgres-upgrade            11-to-14       e4e13bbe3446   2 days ago     432MB
  quay.io/yugabyte/yugaware          2.16.1.0-b50   230d619f5c20   2 days ago     2.56GB
  nginxinc/nginx-unprivileged        1.23.3         63e2b5caa055   3 weeks ago    142MB
  quay.io/yugabyte/thirdparty-deps   latest         479490b66ad9   4 weeks ago    665MB
  prom/prometheus                    v2.41.0        932c2dbe7d3e   6 weeks ago    231MB
  postgres                           14.4           e09e90144645   6 months ago   376MB
  ```

  ```sh
  docker tag 230d619f5c20 gcr.io/dataengineeringdemos/yugabyte/yugaware:2.16.1.0-b50
  docker tag 479490b66ad9 gcr.io/dataengineeringdemos/yugabyte/thirdparty-deps:latest
  docker tag 63e2b5caa055 gcr.io/dataengineeringdemos/yugabyte/nginxinc/nginx-unprivileged:1.23.3
  docker tag e09e90144645 gcr.io/dataengineeringdemos/yugabyte/postgres:14.4
  docker tag e4e13bbe3446 gcr.io/dataengineeringdemos/tianon/postgres-upgrade:11-to-14

>   docker tag 932c2dbe7d3e gcr.io/dataengineeringdemos/prom/prometheus:v2.41.0

Reviewer 2: I think we don't need to do `docker images` and then use the image id to tag it. 
Something like `docker tag postgres:14.4 gcr.io/demo/postgres:14.4` should just work.
Maybe try it once before making the change?

  ```

1. Push images to the private container registry, as follows:

  ```sh
  docker push gcr.io/dataengineeringdemos/yugabyte/yugaware:2.16.1.0-b50
  docker push gcr.io/dataengineeringdemos/yugabyte/thirdparty-deps:latest
  docker push gcr.io/dataengineeringdemos/yugabyte/nginx:1.23.3
  docker push gcr.io/dataengineeringdemos/yugabyte/postgres:14.4
  docker push gcr.io/dataengineeringdemos/janeczku/tianon/postgres-upgrade:11-to-14
  docker push gcr.io/dataengineeringdemos/prom/prometheus:v2.41.0
  ```

  ![img](/images/yp/docker-image.png)

> 1. Modify the Helm chart `values.yaml` file. You can map your private internal repository `gcr.io/dataengineeringdemos` URI to `commonRegistry`.

Reviewer 2: I think the part from here on should be in the installation document, we can link to that section from here.
https://github.com/yugabyte/yugabyte-db/blob/master/docs/content/preview/yugabyte-platform/install-yugabyte-platform/install-software/kubernetes.md

We can have something like "Use a custom container registry" under "Customize YugabyteDB Anywhere".

  ```properties
  image:

>     commonRegistry: "gcr.io/dataengineeringdemos"

Reviewer 2: It is actually possible to just set the `image.commonRegistry` to get images from a different registry. We don't need to add anything else to the values apart from pullSecret (that's because the target registry can also be private).

The only thing one needs to ensure is images are tagged correct in the private registry. 
Do `helm template . --set image.commonRegistry=gcr.io/myreg` to see how the image tags are generated for all the containers. And then we can make changes in the rest of the instructions accordingly.
